#summary Release notes for the 0.6 beta version of RSH

Brian and Brad are happy to announce the beta release of Really Simple History 06. This is the first attempt to update this library in two years. As such, we'd like your help putting it through its paces. Please report any issues using the [http://code.google.com/p/reallysimplehistory/sourcehttp://code.google.com/p/reallysimplehistory/issues/list Google Code Issues tab] or by emailing Brian at bdillard(at)pathf(dot)com. Brad continues on as RSH's proud poppa, but Brian takes all the complaints (and any congrats) for changes since 0.4.

== Where to get it ==

For latest stable, packaged-up ZIP files, go to the downloads page:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/reallysimplehistory/downloads/list 0.6 download]

For up-to-the-minute revisions, visit the SVN repo. RSH is now (finally) version-controlled, and Brian is commiting changes there atomically. When significant milestones are reached, he'll be packaging them up on the downloads page. *In the meantime, the supported browsers list and the issues list below are being updated to reflect the state of the SVN repo.*

  * [http://code.google.com/p/reallysimplehistory/source Google Code Source tab]

== New features and change log==

  * Added support for IE7 (see "Known issue" list below)
  * Added support for Opera/Mac and Opera/Win (see "Known issue" list below) using Bertrand Le Roy's image method (see "Interesting links" section below)
  * Added support for Safari 2/Mac (see "Known issue" list below) using Bertrand Le Roy's hidden text-field method
  * Modernized the JSON parser and moved it to a separate file
  * Provided bridge methods for JSON calls to make it easier to swap out JSON parsers
  * Rebuilt original test pages into a single test page that allows you to peek behind the scenes at hidden, hacked-in DOM elements
  * Refactored many private and public methods for better support of more browsers
  * Changed name of private historyStorage.init method to historyStorage.setup to avoid confucion with dhtmlHistory.initialize
  * Removed unused isInternational() method
  * Removed blocks of deprecated, commented-out code

== Known issues ==

=== General issues ===
  * Current implementation clobbers window.onunload
  * Framework does not bail gracefully in unsupported browsers
  * ~~For ... in loop in fireDebugMode breaks with certain libraries.~~ Fixed in 0.6.1!

=== Safari 2/Mac issues ===

  * Use of RSH triggers "infinite loading" bug
  * ~~Navigating away from RSH apps and then back to them kills history data (but not history entries)!!~~ Fixed in 0.6.1!
  * ~~Current Safari dhtmlHistory.add implementation doesn't enforce a timeout; may cause aberrant behavior~~ Not an issue. Using a timeout actually causes problems.
  * ~~Safari 3/Mac beta has not been tested~~; Safari 3/Windows beta does not work due to insurmountable bugs in the current version (3.03)

=== Opera 9.22/Mac and Opera 9.22/Win issues ===

  * ~~Navigating away from RSH apps and then back to them kills history data (but not history entries)~~
  * ~~Browser error log shows messages when you insert hidden magical image via !JavaScript, but errors do not affect browser performance. Only other solution is to hard-code the image in your page, but that would cause errors in other browsers, so leaving this for now.~~
  * ~~Opera 9.5/Mac and 9.5/PC not tested.~~ Both tested, both work, but must check to see whether we can get rid of the image hack in these versions.

=== IE issues ===
  * History behaves erratically when user manually types in a new hash in the address bar; the code to handle this gracefully appears to have degraded; needs more investigation

=== Browser scenarios that need to be tested ===
  * ~~Safari 3/Mac beta~~ and nightly webkit builds
  * ~~Opera 9.5/Mac and 9.5/PC~~
  * Firefox for Red Hat
  * ~~Firefox for Ubuntu~~
  * IE7/Vista
  * IE7/XP non-standalone
  * All Mac browsers on Leopard (Opera 9.22/9.5/Safari 2?/Safari 3/Firefox 2)
  * Non-Firefox Mozilla clients, all platforms (Netscape, Mozilla, etc.)

== Supported and unsupported browsers ==

=== Supported ===

  * IE6
  * IE7
  * Firefox 2.x (Mac, Windows, Ubuntu)
  * Opera 9.22-9.5 (Mac and Windows)
  * Safari 2.03, 2.04 and 3.03 (Mac)

=== Unsupported ===

  * Non-Mozilla-based Linux browsers
  * Safari 3.x (Windows): It works as long as your RSH app isn't the first page you visit, but even then back and forward button bugs in the browser itself can cause problems.
  * Any browser not listed above; test before you deploy.

== Roadmap ==

The current goal is to remedy as many of the above-named issues as possible before the next public release. We're starting to migrate issues from this page into the issue tracker now that the major ones have been tackled.

=== Wishlist features/enhancements ===

  * Add ability to disable the entire framework gracefully based on useragent
  * Add actual unit tests
  * Perform proper garbage collection
  * Document update abilities of the add() method
  * Provide better Opera version sniffing (> 9.10, < 9.50 are the ones that require the image hack)
  * Do less internal branching based on useragent - use functional programming patterns to redeclare methods by browser
  * Provide an options bundle when initializing so you can pass in a debug flag, override JSON methods, etc.
  * Provide a minified production version
  * Make private methods actually private/protected
  * Improve hash parsing logic with regexes
  * Debug page: Use cookies to persist debug mode so it doesn't turn off when you navigate away and back
  * Debug page: Add the ability for users to add test cases on the fly in the browser
  * Debug page: improve log-window readability